Getting Started Guide (up to running a projection) (#270)
akka/akka-projection: docs/src/main/paradox/getting-started.md

# Getting Started Guide

By now you should understand the fundamental concepts of how a Projection works by reading about its @ref:[use cases](use-cases.md).
This guide will briefly describe the basic components of a Projection and instruct you step-by-step on how to build a functioning application.
The example used in this guide is based on a more complete application called `akka-sample-cqrs` that's found in [akka-samples](https://github.com/akka/akka-samples/). 
It builds a full @ref:[CQRS](use-cases.md#command-query-responsibility-segregation-cqrs-) (Command Query Responsibility Segregation) ES (Event Sourcing) system using a combination of features from the akka toolkit.

> ## Part 1: Setup your application

Reviewer: we can have each part as a separate page, to avoid one single huge page

Reviewer 2: #353

Add the Akka Projections core library to a new project.
This isn't strictly required, because as we add other dependencies in the following steps it will transitively include core as a dependency, but it never hurts to be explicit.

@@dependency [sbt,Maven,Gradle] {
  group=com.lightbend.akka
  artifact=akka-projection-core_$scala.binary.version$
  version=$project.version$
}

Define the event type protocol that will represent each `Envelope` streamed from the Source Provider.
Create a typed @apidoc[akka.actor.typed.ActorSystem] for various Projections implementations to use.

Scala
:  @@snip [ShoppingCartApp.scala](/examples/src/test/scala/docs/guide/ShoppingCartApp.scala) { #guideSetup }

## Part 1: Choosing a Source Provider

> A @apidoc:[SourceProvider] will provide the data to our projection. In Projections data is referenced as an `Envelope`, but it could reference an event, a message from a queueing system, or a record from a database table.

Reviewer 2: ```
In Projections data is referenced as an `Envelope`, but it could reference an event, a message from a queueing system, or a record from a database table.
```

I think we should rephares to insist on what's different between an `Envelope` and an event/message/record and that's the `offset` information (or metadata required to recompute the offset) the envelope contains.

Author: I'll rephrase.

> There are several supported Source Provider's available (or you can build your own), but in this example we will use the @ref:[Event Sourced Source Provider](eventsourced.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are several supported Source Provider's available (or you can build your own), but in this example we will use the @ref:[Akka Persistence `EventSourced` Source Provider](eventsourced.md).
```
Specify that it is `Akka Persistence`'s. Also, should that be `EventSourced`, one word? I'm not sure, TBH. the snippet in [`eventsourced-.md`](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka-projection/current/eventsourced.html#sourcedprovider-for-eventsbytag) refers to the class `EventSourcedProvider` so it's a bit confusing.

Add the following dependencies to your project:

@@dependency [sbt,Maven,Gradle] {
  group=com.lightbend.akka
  artifact=akka-projection-eventsourced_$scala.binary.version$
  version=$project.version$
}

Add the following imports to your project:

Scala
:  @@snip [ShoppingCartApp.scala](/examples/src/test/scala/docs/guide/ShoppingCartApp.scala) { #guideSourceProviderImports }

Create the @apidoc[SourceProvider].
The @ref:[Event Sourced Source Provider](eventsourced.md) is using [Akka Persistence](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka/current/typed/persistence.html) internally (specifically the [eventsByTag](https://doc.akka.io/docs/akka/current/persistence-query.html#eventsbytag-and-currenteventsbytag) API).
To initialize the Source Provider we need to set parameters to choose the Akka Persistence plugin (Cassandra) to use as well as the name of the tag used for events we're interested in from the journal.

Scala
:  @@snip [ShoppingCartApp.scala](/examples/src/test/scala/docs/guide/ShoppingCartApp.scala) { #guideSourceProviderSetup }

## Part 2: Build a simple Projection handler

While building a projection there are several non-functional requirements to consider.

> _What technology to project into? What message delivery semantics are acceptable for the system? Is it compatible with the chosen Source Provider to enable exactly-once message delivery? Does runtime state need to be maintained in the projection while it's running?_

Reviewer 2: Love this list! I would even make it a list so it's some sort of checklist.
We could even add "Is the _source_ sharded (or partitioned)?".

In the following paragraph, then, you can list the answers to each item on the checklist.

Reviewer 2: Maybe "Is the source sharded (or partitioned)?" is too advanced for a section this early in the GettingStarted guide.

Author: Thanks.  Maybe some of this could move to other parts of the docs where it would be more appropriate.  I'll consider adding answers to these questions, relevant to the example itself.

  artifact=akka-projection-cassandra_$scala.binary.version$
  version=$project.version$
}

Add the following imports to your project:

Scala
:  @@snip [ShoppingCartApp.scala](/examples/src/test/scala/docs/guide/ShoppingCartApp.scala) { #guideProjectionImports }

It's the user's responsibility to implement the means to project into the target system, the Projection will only manage the persistence of the offset (though it is possible to enlist your projection into transactions when using projection implementations that support exactly-once like the @ref:[JDBC](jdbc.md)).
Write the code necessary to implement your projection.
For this example we are going filter `ShoppingCartEvents.CheckedOut` events from the Source Provider and write them to a Cassandra table that can be used to see the current daily count, as well as historical counts for the number of checked out shopping carts for each day of the year.
Implement a Cassandra repository that will manage a Cassandra table named `daily_checkouts`.

Scala
:  @@snip [ShoppingCartApp.scala](/examples/src/test/scala/docs/guide/ShoppingCartApp.scala) { #guideProjectionRepo }

Now it's time to write the Projection handler itself.

> There are many kinds of handlers we can choose from.

Reviewer 2: I would remove this sentence. I think that, unless we link to a list of "kinds of handlers" it's not providing valuable information.

Reviewer: I agree, a getting started guide can show one way without going in to all alternatives

It's the user's responsibility to implement the means to project into the target system, the Projection itself will only manage the persistence of the offset (though it is possible to enlist your projection into transactions when using projection implementations that support exactly-once like the @ref:[JDBC](jdbc.md)).
This guide encapsulates its data access layer in a Repository called the `DailyCheckoutProjectionRepository`.
The repository will manage two Cassandra tables:

1. The `daily_checkouts` table will contain the actual Projection data of checked out shopping carts.
Each row in the table will include a date, shopping cart id, item id, and item quantity.
End users will be able to query the table by a date, cart id, or item id.
2. The `cart_state` table is an intermediate table that represents the current state of all active shopping carts.
This is required so that we can restore our state after the projection has been shutdown (i.e. a previously planned shutdown, a failure, or a rebalance).
This table can also be considered a Projection, even though we are only using it to represent intermediate state in this guide.

Scala

> :  @@snip [ShoppingCartApp.scala](/examples/src/test/scala/docs/guide/ShoppingCartApp.scala) { #guideProjectionRepo }

Reviewer 2: It'd be great to point out that the `addCheckout` and `updateCartState` methods in the repository (and how they are used in the handler) are idempotent. Also, indicate why idempotence is important considering this example is using `at-least-once` semantics.

Reviewer 2: #351
